If you've followed along so far,
you might remember that I'd mentioned JWT as
one of the other ways to authenticate yourself online.
We had established that in this course,
we will learn how to implement JWT authentication on Spring Boot Applications.
So this is where we learn more about what is JWT.
If you go online and search for the definition of JWT,
you will come across various definitions,
including it's a means of representing claims to be transferred between two parties.
Is a JSON based open standard for creating
access tokens that assert some number of claims,
and so on and so forth.
What it really means is that JWT,
which stands for JSON Web Token is
an access token mechanism that assorts some sort of authorization coin.
Let's look a little deeper into what the structure of a JSON Web Token looks like.
A JSON Web Token structure consists of three parts: A header,
a payload, and a signature.
So it will be divided with periods and the structure would
appear like header period, payload period, signature.
You might wonder what the header contains.
This is what the header contains.
It contains the type of token.
In our case, it is JWT and a signing algorithm.
An algorithm here that I have written in the example,
each is a 256.
In the payload, we would add the claims.
For example, the sub here is 1234,
the name is my name,
and the admin is true.
The last part that it has is a signature.
What the signature contains is the encoded header, the encoded payload,
in our case this is base64Url encoding,
a secret, the algorithm specified in the header and we signed that.
The reason why we choose JWT over SWT which is Simple Web Token or SAML
which is Security Assertion Markup Language Tokens is that JWT is more compact than SAML,
which makes it a good choice because it's going to be
passed in HTML and HTTP environments.
JSON parsers are common in programming languages because they have direct object mapping,
whereas XML don't have a natural document to object mapping.
JWT is also use at Internet scale so it has an ease of client-side processing using JWT,
which is use over multiple platforms, like mobile.
Which is why for this particular course,
we have chosen JWT.
We will next look at the implementation of JWT in a real Spring Boot Application.